# Name:  Janvisree Puligundla
# Student ID: 801308951

Used programming language: Python

Python version: Python3.11.1

Program & DataStructure Design:
 - An input file containing sequence of symbols and characters is given as input to the encoder.

 - LZW, a greedy algorithm is implemented in the encoder algorithm. This algorithm finds the longest string with out code in the input sequence and and generates a code for it. 

Encoding:

 - Initially the algorithm requires a dictionary of single characters with values from 0 to 255. In the algorithm, Dictionary data structure  is used. Keys are the strings and the values are their ASCII characters.  

 - The function "encoder" reads the input sequence one by one and appends it to an empty string. Every time it reads a new character, it also checks if the resulting string has a code in the dictionary. If if finds a string that has no code then it outputs the code for the previous string and adds the current string along with an incremented code into the dictionary. 

 - The generated output list of integers is stored in 2 byte format into a file with the name same as in the input file name but with extension .lzw. 

Decoding:

 - Dictionary need not be transmitted explicitly, rather the Decoder algorithm constructs its own dictionary. We don't transmit the dictionary rather we build the dictionary in the decoder. Initially the algorithm requires a dictionary of single characters with values from 0 to 255. In the algorithm Dictionary data structure of python is used. Keys are the strings and the values are their ASCII characters. Dictionary data structure is used.

 - Encoded data is extracted from the  lzw file and is passed to decoder function for decoding. 

 - The function decoder reads the input sequence one by one  from the encoded sequence and uses it as an index to look it up in the dictionary. The code associated with the string is given as output. As the decoder reads in a new code, finds the string linked to it, and outputs it. The first character of the current string is concatenated to the previously decoded string, and the entire string is added to the dictionary with an incremented code.

 - The decoded output is stored in a text file with name same as the input file name concatenated with the string "_decoded".

Project Folder:

 Project1
    |
    |___Encoder.py
    |
    |___Decoder.py
    |
    |___input1.txt
    |
    |___input1.lzw
    |
    |___input_decoded.txt
    |
    |___README.md

Instructions on how to run:
 - Open terminal at algorithm folder in Project1/src/com (cd Project1/src/com/algorithm). To compile Encoder and Decoder java files.

 - Navigate to the project1 folder (cd Project1)

 - Create a text file with name input1.txt in the Project1 folder

 - To run the Encoder > "Python Encoder.py input1.txt 12" (Python program_name.py <input_file_name> <bit_length>). Input file name and bit lenght should be passed as command line arguments.

 - To run the Decoder > "Python Decoder.py input1.lzw 12" (Python program_name.py <file_generated_by_encoder> <bit_lenght>).  Name of the .lzw file generated by the encoder and bit length should be passed as command line arguments.
   
Summary:
 - Any character between the ASCII values of 0 to 255 can be provided in the input sequence. The lzw algorithm will compress the provided input sequence and stores it in a .lzw file in 2 byte format. 

 - Code will not execute if the specified bit length is less than 8 or greater than 12.

 - One limitation is that, code will not be executed if the size of the dictionary exceeds 2^16.

 - Both encoder and decoder functions validate the bit length. Similar to encoding, decoder will also validate the number of bits.

 - Code handles empty input text file 
